Wassup y'all! You're listening to another episode of Life in
English. I'm your host, Tony Kaizen. And this is an
unordered list of reasons that YouTube is the future.
Alright,
now, like I said, this list of reasons is in no particular
order. I just wrote them all down as I thought of them, and
now I'm going to read them to you. So let's get started. The
first reason I got for you, the first reason that YouTube is
the future and it will slowly but surely annihilate the
television, or at least network television, is that YouTube
offers longevity.
One of the most underrated features that makes YouTube great
is the ability to essentially host a video on the platform
forever. Forever and for free, bro!
And when I say forever, obviously, I mean until YouTube
doesn't exist anymore. And obviously I have no idea if this
is true or not, but I just imagine YouTube will outlast you
and me in terms of years. Just my assumption. And even if
that's not the case right now, today, you can watch videos
that were posted 12 years ago if you want. Can you turn on a
TV and easily watch any and every episode of your favorite
show from 12 years ago? Just the fact that your videos can
be watched an infinite number of times over decades is
something that no other platform has achieved. And somebody
please correct me if I'm wrong, but outside of YouTube, I
can't think of any other platform that has done something
like that. That's not some major news network or excuse me,
TV network or something like that. I can't think of one. And
that takes me to my next point. YouTube is a search engine.
You can essentially find or learn just about anything you
want on YouTube.
Now, many people don't know that Google and YouTube are
owned by the same company, and both platforms function in a
similar way, at least on the surface. When you want the
answer to a question or an explanation of a complex concept
or recommendations for a restaurant in your area, what do
you do? You pull out your phone and type specific words in
the Google search engine. And I think it's safe to say that
we all do the same thing on YouTube. When you want to see an
explanation of a topic or a demonstration of an activity,
I'm willing to bet the first thing you do is pull out your
phone and type some specific keywords on YouTube, hoping
that somebody has made a decent video about it. I know
that's the case for me. Almost all the knowledge I possess
that's of any value was acquired on the tube. Either that or
I just learned through pure trial and error, also known as
experience. And most of the time, some knowledge I gained
after watching YouTube videos is what gave me the confidence
to go out there and get the experience. I hope that makes
sense. Now the difference between Google and YouTube is
we're not just searching for information on YouTube. We're
also searching for entertainment - from sports highlights to
vloggers, to talk shows, to podcasts, stunts, movies,
interviews, and everything in between. YouTube really seems
limitless at times.
There are literally millions of videos in the YouTube
ecosystem that I'll never know about because I'm not
interested in those subjects. But the point is, they're out
there. There's room for everybody on YouTube, minus the
select group of people that YouTube considers harmful to the
platform and its users obviously. But it doesn't matter if
you're into biochemistry, DIY projects, soccer, cooking,
traveling, engineering, mathematics, entrepreneurship,
anime, video games, makeup, psychology, philosophy, whatever
it is, there's a community of people making and watching
videos about it on YouTube. Can we say the same thing about
network television? Now, another reason
that YouTube is the future is that you have almost complete
control over the entire creative process. And before the
Internet opened up to the masses, you would have to go
through a bunch of gatekeepers to get your content seen by
the masses. And what's a gatekeeper?
Well, the literal definition of gatekeeper is an attendant
at a gate who is paid to control who goes through that gate.
So think like a doorman before a gate or a security guard
but they stand at the gate. That's the gatekeeper. But a
more general way to use the word is when you mean to say
someone who controls access to something. For example, in
the past, record labels acted as gatekeepers to the music
industry. They were the ones who decided which artists would
get their music distributed around the world because in the
past, artists didn't have access to free distribution
channels like they do today. So when you think social media,
you can really think distribution channel because that's
really what it is in my opinion. But anyway, getting back to
my point, when the gatekeepers of the film, music, photo,
book, and design industries had all the control, anyone who
wanted national or international distribution would have to
be approved by the people who own the record label or the
publishing house or the art gallery or whatever. So if you
didn't fit into the box they provided for you, you were
fucked. Because without distribution, no one will know your
work exists. And if no one knows it exists, then you will
never be recognized for it, let alone compensated. But these
days, you don't need to be approved by anyone but your
target audience. If you make videos, you get to decide the
video thumbnail, right, which can be changed any time you
want. There's only one movie cover for every DVD or cassette
tape or whatever. You can literally make a movie for
YouTube, decide that you don't like the cover, and change it
any time you want, as many times as you want. You get to
decide the title, which you can also change if you want.
There's no change in movie titles, but on YouTube you can.
It's your choice. You decide the video description, the
video length, the editing style, which has a huge impact on
how the video is received. Right? The soundtrack, the
language in which you recorded, or the language is in which
you record it, the subject matter of the video, it's all up
to you. The only limit is your imagination. And the point is
that there are no more record labels or publishing houses
putting limits on what message you can spread or how you
spread it. You can make a free account on YouTube, upload a
video and click Publish. Not only are there no more
gatekeepers, there's no more fucking gate. You understand?
The barrier to entry is the same for everyone now. And when
I say barrier to entry, I mean the obstacle between you and
that field in which you want to be, right? A barrier is like
an obstacle, something keeping you from moving forward. So
the barrier to entry -- figuratively speaking -- is whatever
stopping you from moving forward or getting involved. So
these days, when it comes to content production and making
videos, podcasts or whatever, the barrier is so much lower
than it has ever been. And it's the same for every human
being on the planet now. It's three things. Wi-Fi, a way to
record audio, video or written words, and a fucking idea.
That's it.
That's literally it, bro. If somebody tells you that you
need more than that, they're either misinformed or they're
trying to sell you some shit that you do not need. Take my
word on that one. Just trust me on it. That's all you need.
That's not all you need but technically to get started,
that's all you need. Another thing that's extremely
important is what brings me to my next point - the great
thing about YouTube and social media in general, but YouTube
is just the king of them all, in my opinion, is that
creators get to connect with their audiences in a way that
wasn't possible before. Right?
In the past, the thing that drew us to celebrity actors is
the fact that we only saw them on TV. They captivated us
with their performances on the movie screen but other than
the occasional, like, shallow interviews, we didn't really
know anything about them. The mystique of the celebrity is
what made their presence so valuable, in my opinion. But
nowadays, with the explosion of social media and vlogging,
what people appreciate is proximity. Being able to leave a
comment on your favorite creator's video and have them
respond personally is something that wasn't really possible
in the past. A video that lets you know what your favorite
creator or actor is doing at 9 a.m. on a Tuesday is now
considered valuable content depending on who's making and
watching it. Social media has allowed us to speak directly
to the people that want to listen to us. It's allowed us to
get direct feedback from the people for whom we are making
our content. It's allowed us to get financial support from
the people who follow our work so that we can continue to
produce the content. And that just wasn't possible before
the modern day Internet. Which takes me to my next point, or
a reason that YouTube is certainly the future - and that is,
YouTube pays its creators. You can make
money producing videos for YouTube, like, I told you before,
you need Wi-Fi, a way to record the content, and a
fucking idea. That's what you need. And if you have those
three things and your ideas are good enough, and you can
execute on the fucking idea, you can get paid. To make
YouTube videos.
Like I say that, and you understand me, you get...it's like,
"Duh, it's fucking 2022, of course we know this!"
But...YouTube pays its creators, bro! YouTube was smart
enough to understand that the video platform is worthless
without a catalog of interesting videos to watch. So as a
way to incentivize great creators to publish videos that
people actually want to watch on YouTube, they've created a
win-win-win situation. Viewers can always find new and
interesting videos to watch, creators get paid for making
videos that viewers want to watch, and YouTube has videos to
run their ads on and viewers to show those ads to. Everybody
wins. As far as I know, the same cannot be said for any
other major content platform at the moment. On every other
platform your favorite content creators are busting their
asses to make great content, and they're not getting a dime
from the platform or from the viewers. A million followers
is not the same as $1,000,000. Please do not forget that.
Now, it might have sounded like I was a little upset about
the fact that social networks don't pay creators to make
content, but that is not at all the case. My point was that
YouTube is the only platform on which you can literally be
paid to do nothing but create awesome videos that people
want to watch. You can use social media to get paid even if
you don't make YouTube videos but then your content
production would require a different strategy and approach.
Now, I don't want to lose you guys by going into too much
detail here, but it really is interesting to talk about this
stuff from the perspective of both a creator and a business
person so if you do want to talk about it, join the Discord
server and shoot me a message. But anyway, all of that
brings me back to my next point, which is that businesses
are built on the back of YouTube all the time. Real
businesses. Like legit.
Businesses, money generating like, you know what I'm saying,
a real business off of YouTube videos like take MrBeast, for
example, a kid from...I think North Carolina who just was
making stupid videos in his room one day. And just
through...of course, it's a whole long story, he did a lot,
experimented a lot, reinvested all of his money, but all off
of making YouTube videos that he was eventually paid to make
and then taking that money to reinvest and make better
videos so that he can make more money off of his great
videos and take that money and start a business. And now
because he has brand recognition over here, people are
naturally going to go check out the business and support the
business, especially when they see that he doesn't care
about money. He just wants more money to make better videos
to help more people. Shit, how could I not support? So now
they're watching more videos. Literally watching MrBeast's
videos is literally helping people in Africa get water or
people in North Carolina get food for the next two weeks.
Like literally! I highly recommend you check out MrBeast,
understand his story and how he became the biggest YouTuber
on the planet. It's...it's...it's insane, bro. It's insane.
I'm pretty sure I'm gonna do an episode on how similar
MrBeast and Jeff Bezos are. I don't see how you could not
make that comparison, but we'll save that for another
episode. But the point is, he was just a normal guy, just
started making videos at his house. That's it. And just by
reinvesting everything he got out of the videos back into
the videos, got bigger and bigger and bigger...and the
bigger you get in this game, the higher your earning
potential is, you know what I'm saying? So you could
literally do nothing but make videos and start your own
personal fitness business...coffee shop. You want to be a
lawyer? You can use social media to build your fucking
business, literally making videos for free. It doesn't
matter what it is. You want to be a dog trainer or a dog
breeder or a painter or an au pair or a fucking lawn care
specialist. It doesn't...like bruh, it doesn't matter! You
can build a business, offer videos on YouTube or TikTok or
Instagram or whatever, whatever platform you choose. I'm
just saying YouTube offers all those other benefits -
longevity, searchability, and those things, right? But the
point is the same - what used to be just stupid kids making
dumbass videos on the internet is now how people literally
quit their jobs and wake up and do what they want to do
every day on YouTube. The account is free.
You can make an account right now. And go start your fucking
channel! There's nothing stopping you. If you're listening
to this right now, you've got Wi-Fi, a smart device, all you
need is a fucking idea. Now, ideas are cheap. Execution is
everything. I'm not trying to oversimplify it or nothing
like that, but it really does boil down to that. Alright?
Which takes me to my next point - I don't want to lose track
of my notes here. The next reason that YouTube is the future
is that anyone with the Internet and a smart device can make
content, like I just said - the barrier to entry is lower
than it has ever been in human history. For all the
pessimists out there, I'm not talking shit. I used to be a
pessimist myself, but for the pessimist specifically, you
might sit there and complain about how you need a lot of
money or a lot of following, or a lot of this or a lot of
that to get started. There's all these reasons that you
can't get started, all these reasons that you can't do
something. It's bullshit, bruh! It's bullshit. You don't
have to wait for anyone. You don't need anyone's permission
to get started. You don't have to follow someone else's
framework or try to walk down their path. You can create
your own legacy. You can pave your own path. You can set up
your phone, press record, and send your message out into the
world...for free! And it doesn't even
matter what your preferred style of communication is. If
you're good on camera, start a YouTube channel; if you're a
great speaker but hate being on camera, start a podcast; if
you're an amazing writer, start a blog or publish an e-book.
All the bullshit excuses, bro - lack of equipment, lack of
following, lack of ability, they're out the window! Every
single person listening to this right now has a smartphone
or a computer. Every single creator on YouTube or any other
platforms, for that matter, started with zero followers.
Every single person who owns a smartphone or computer and
learn how to use that smartphone or computer and the social
networks that run on those devices is capable of learning
how to make content. Stop for a second and just realize that
all of your favorite YouTubers are just regular people, like
you and me. Stop and realize that people making videos about
cake, and sports, science, and dog breeding, are getting
paid more than people with master's degrees. Stop and
realize that none of those people were rich celebrities when
they started. Stop and think about all the people who won't
start a YouTube channel or a podcast because they've naively
bought into the idea that their value is based on their
follower count. Or that they're supposed to blow up
overnight without putting any hard work into the process.
Like, imagine how much more content would be out there if
people weren't afraid to create. Just something to think
about.
Let me move on to the next reason that YouTube is the
future. You decide what you watch, when you watch it, and
where you watch it. Before YouTube, you had to watch
whatever was on the TV at the time. And who decided what was
on TV at a particular time? The TV networks, of course. If
you wanted to see a particular show, you had to be in front
of a TV at a particular time. And if you missed it, then you
missed it. Unless you have money and maybe you got it on
DVR. Right? You could used to be able to record live TV and
then watch it later. Or maybe you catch a rerun at some
point, right? And if you want to watch Rick and Morty, but
the network wants to show Bob's Burgers, you're either
watching Bob's Burgers or nothing at all, those were your
choices. And that's why Netflix wins. Your movies and shows
when you want and where you want with no annoying ads or
interruptions for just $7 a month. And that's why YouTube
wins. Videos you want to see, when you want, and where you
want for free, with the occasional annoying ad.
But guess what? You can pay not to see those ads, too, if
you really want. It doesn't matter if you're laying naked in
bed, commuting to work on the train, working out at the gym,
walking in the park, or cooking dinner. You can get access
to your favorite videos and podcasts whenever and wherever
you want. Now, another reason that YouTube is the future is
because it learns about your viewing habits and recommends
more videos. Every time you search for or click on
something, YouTube learns a little more about you and your
interest. YouTube then uses that data to guess which videos
you would like to see in the future. It's always trying to
find ways to get you to spend more time watching videos. So
it's always trying to learn about what you find interesting.
This means that even if you're too lazy to search for
something new, YouTube will always recommend something new.
From which videos you click on to the amount of time you
spend watching a video, to what you do after you watch the
video. YouTube is collecting data in order to create a
better user experience on their platform. And also so they
can show you more relevant ads, right? Now,
another cool thing, another reason that YouTube is the
future, another differentiator is that you can have multiple
YouTube channels. If you've got enough passion about
different disciplines, if you know how to build teams, and
make great content, you could create multiple streams of
revenue in the form of multiple channels with videos that
can be found in search results and recommend it to people
for years to come. All of that translates into passive
income for years to come. And those, my friends, are ten
reasons why YouTube is the future.